world
direct
on this edition for Saturday July 19th
the latest from eastern Ukraine on the
downing a Malaysia Airlines flight 17
you hear from a reporter who visited the
scene at the wreckage today
israeli troops intensified their search
for tiles in gaza
used to conceal rockets as the
Palestinian death count rises
and in our signature segment eight
months after the strongest typhoon
on record hit the Philippines the
recovery is showing few signs of
progress
throughout the entire typhoons on there
are more than one million people still
living in
inadequate housing next on PBS Newshour
weekend from the tisch
WNET studios at Lincoln Center in New
York re: Sreenivasa
good evening thanks for joining us
ukraine today accused russia and
pro-russian separatists a destroying
evidence that could offer clues about it
down into that Malaysia Airlines plane
carrying 290 a people
the plane went down Thursday in an area
I eastern Ukraine where the separatists
have been battling Ukrainian government
forces
for more about all this we're joined now
via Skype from Ukraine by Paul Sony is
the moscow correspondent for The Wall
Street Journal
earlier today he visited the disaster
scene and posted
these pictures on Twitter so Paul is the
site secure
and who's in control it it depends what
you mean by secure
but the rebels are in control the site
I'll it isn't it territory
i'm too bad hour-and-a-half East oMG
northeast
the city yet done yet ask that is is in
possession
up separatists I and de réserve
on-site so they RF you're standing with
guns in the middle of the road that goes
right through
the field where most of the debris has
fallen
I saw that but from what I could
ascertain
there is no perimeter around the actual
site did you see
any indications are that investigation
taking place is there evidence being
gathered do we know anything about the
black boxes
I we do not know where the black box
are there's been a lot of rumors about
that initially some separatists told
Russian news sources that some
that have been recovered separatist
leader and a nest today alexander but I
die
said that they had not recover them on
so in terms of the investigation
I don't see any suggestion any certain
investigation was going on today
the only thing that happened today that
was near was that day
did start retrieving some of the bodies
Ukrainian intelligence officials said
today that they have pictures
I love some of these anti-aircraft
missile launchers on trucks moving back
into Russia and that's just 10 hours
after the planes went down they say that
that is
the direct link that Russia was
supplying these missiles in the first
place as
Russia responded to any in this iressa
has said that they want a all impartial
objective investigation into what
happened
I'll though latimer peyton has blamed
Ukraine
for the accident but he hasn't Blaney
and Ukraine for sitting on a plane it's
very careful
difference there what he said is ukraine
created a situation essentially or
something like this could happen
by invading they eastern part of their
own country
to put down the separatist rebellion and
he said he'll bite deciding to use force
into play tortures that insider a
country that created a situation
we're in this could happen I so that's
basically the Russian line
this point in terms of the pictures I
you know the pictures that ukraine
security services hashed
up put out I think the line you not just
for russia from a lot of countries is
that
that they want entered national %uh
objective investigation which
into that up not sort of people posting
does our website
and what does the Ukrainian government
say is evidence that Russia or the
progression separatists have destroyed
you know I don't
I I didn't specify as far as I know
exactly what it is
%uh exactly what evidence they just said
a steam to you is in to know that the
evidence have been destroyed
I'm you up when I was there I didn't see
any signs of looting
evidence I'll I say I was not there for
the whole top
I made it to the whole perimeter so it's
a cigar tell aren't
but you certainly evidenced would have
been damaged
or regardless because the fact that it
has been laughed
%uh without a secure perimeter for so
long %uh in the heat
it does seem like are getting has been
moved when I was there a lot of personal
attacks
up into different piles I'm so it does
seem like stuff has been moved already
at the scene
I'm and certainly they're moving stuff
in our to take out the bodies I and the
investigation doesn't sing
to BRT occurring simultaneous and i'm
taking up the bodies so in terms and
a already this the site being
jeopardized
for investigations on any evidence being
spoiled
regardless of whether it's actually
physically been takin that probably
already is the case
also near the wall street journal
joining us via Skype from Ukraine thanks
so much
extracting turning now to the other
major international story dominating the
headlines the invasion of Gaza
an offensive israel says is designed to
locate tunnels and designed to stop
rockets
from being fired from Gaza into Israel
Palestinian Authority say more than 330
palestinians most of them civilians have
been killed during the past two weeks
israel says militants have fired more
than 1600 rockets into Israel during
that time
for more we're joined now by a Skype
from jerusalem by Jody
read or in she is the new york times
bureau chief they're so what's the
latest on the ground offensive this been
happening there
over the past couple days well the
letting that happen with this morning
%uh Houston militants again invaded
I Israel through it all and they engaged
with I soldiers on the ground there on
patrol and killed two israeli soldiers
and whatnot killed as well in a gunfight
on
its it the second time in three days
that at
notion to come through tunneled into
Israel and that was their basic
reading that that ground operation was
begun so
I it Israeli military and political
leaders have
learned at this threat and that their
determined to destroy all the time no
better in got that lead into Israel
2008 future invasion Bay talk about that
its
if that got and got through they could
kidnap
a israeli civilians from their keep the
team that are located there
or at go on a killing spree we've also
heard that this is I'll
the ground offensive and the air
offensive is created a refugee situation
and there's
some 47,000 refugees heading to
different UN shelters in the area
yeah I get caught up in work today over
50 out and and
at my colleague and Bernard in got that
reported
it's really much higher than that
because so many people they are not
going to the shelter just
we in their homes and going to relatives
houses or
at Brent I'm so there's any number maybe
a hundred thousand people
gorgeous but yes any update on the
diplomatic front any efforts towards a
cease-fire
not really I doesn't seem to be much
progress the israeli
keep saying a Mac that's the Egyptian
ago at their
they're ready for it I'm back it's
unclear where
Inc and John Kerry again rumored to be
covering to Cairo and and have not
showed up
on I believe I'm keno and it's supposed
to be coming today I haven't heard
anything about but at
actually happening or what you doing
here so there's no a public progress
you don't know I can what's this doing
to us. leverage
in the region well I think US that
lost a lot of its leverage in the region
lot lot its credibility here
starting really where what happened with
cereal and
obama said he was gonna attack and then
yeah I at congress and then
ended up with a negotiated solution i
lot of people here thought that was side
a real change up at resolve Washington
show observe its own red line then just
threw out the arrow
and it has changed at America as well
the other thing of course is that take a
lot of other that
think that play and now we've got this
huge crisis and Ukraine
at diverting attention and of course
they're still here on negotiations
set I think people here I'm are not
relying on the US the way they have
before right jury were doing on the New
York Times
thanks so much thank you there was a
series of bombings in Baghdad today
authorities say at least 27 people were
killed including four policemen
after bombs were detonated in Shiite
neighborhoods in the capital
the attacks were the biggest since Sunni
extremists overran significant portions
of northern
and western Iraq weeks ago militants in
egypt today attacked a government
checkpoint in the western part of the
country
and fifteen soldiers reportedly were
killed the attack is believed to be
retaliation for the government's
crackdown against supporters of the
deposed President Mohammed Morsi
the attack took place around sunset when
Muslims break their fast
during Ramadan and a US drone strike
today in Pakistan near the border with
Afghanistan reportedly killed 15
militants it was the fourth drone strike
in the area since the beginning a
Pakistani government offensive
more than a month ago back in this
country the Environmental Protection
Agency has taken steps to block the
development of a huge gold and copper
mine in Alaska
the EPA said the mine would have cause
what it called
irreversible damage to one of the
world's last intact salmon ecosystems
the state of Alaska and the mining
operators are suing the EPA
they say the agency has exceeded its
authority
industry altercation involving New York
City Police is drawing more attention
today
cell phone video obtained by The New
York Daily News shows a police officer
apparently using a chokehold to bring
down a man they believe was
selling untaxed cigarettes air card or a
43-year-old asthmatic died at a hospital
an hour later a heart attack on Thursday
the father of six can be heard on the
tape saying repeatedly that he could not
breed
while an officer pressed his face into
the sidewalk
to have the officers involved were put
on desk duty New York City Police
Department policy forbids the use
%uh chokeholds and a new study found
that banning the use of hand-held cell
phones by drivers does not necessarily
reduce the number of traffic accidents
a professor from the University of
Colorado Boulder who examined data for
six months
preceding and following california's law
that forces drivers not to handle their
phones while driving
thinks the conversations on the phones
might be just as distracting as whether
drivers are holding their phones are not
direction
of an outdoor signature segment our
original in-depth reports from
around the nation and around the world
this week a typhoon has been battering
parts of China and the Philippines
dozens have been killed of course that
doesn't begin to compare with the loss
of life caused by another typhoon that
ravaged the Philippines late last year
super typhoon high on killed sixty three
hundred people
as happens so often offers to help
poured into the disaster area in the
days and weeks
after the storm hit but not all the
money that was pledged an
was deliver and now eight months later
all their
is not well use our special
correspondent mark lichte reports
Bacup 2 p.m. TV was on the air live
as the storm hit it was the strongest
typhoon
ever to make landfall in the worst was
still to come
a storm surge a wall of water twenty
feet high
smashing washing away much of what was
in its path the city of talk low-ball
population 200,000 took a direct hit
this video was shot by the city's mayor
tracked in his own house rate when the
water receded
utter devastation the dead tangled in
the wreckage
the living forced to fend for themselves
for days
many women would give birth in
deplorable conditions
on the floor of what was the Tuck rule
the airport
Emily ortega gave birth to her first
child
they enjoyed and this
is being a joint today the smile on her
mother's face
says it all I'm plus
I am so happy that she has grown I'm
happy that we survived and we're all
here together
but the smiles fade when the talk turns
to
the trauma inflicted by the typhoon do
you still want to live here
and Tacloban the Sun amina we want to
live far away from the sea
when it's raining in the weeds get
higher I'm afraid all over again
I'll in the language of
international relief efforts the
humanitarian situation has stabilized
across the affected regions
but eight months later this is what
stabilized looks like
tens of thousands of families still
living in refugee tent
or makeshift shacks the Philippine
government has reportedly bill
fewer than 200 above the 200 thousand
permanent homes it promised
and now growing concerns about
unsanitary conditions the threat of
communicable diseases
and will pay with a massive rebuilding
that lies ahead and
the international community pledged
about eight hundred million dollars in
post-disaster aid
but just 463 million
has been delivered and help from the
central Philippine government has also
been slow to a rock
categorically I'm not pleased with the
response
talk no one mare Alfred from Aldis says
the pace of recovery has picked up
recently in central Tacloban today
businesses are reopening
streets are filled with traffic again
but many are still furious with the
Philippine government's response
why do we still have I'm you sleeping in
tents and children now
catching ammonia from the heat and all
that and it's really heartbreaking
the man chosen as the typhoon recoveries
are
penfield lax on insist the recovery
is now on track and he tries to
emphasize the positive
the fact that we don't have an epidemic
we don't if I mean
and there's no breakdown of law and
order a
I think government is responded the well
enough
lax on admits the recovery has not gone
as quickly as he hoped
partly he says because relief efforts
have to be closely monitored
to eliminate corruption they cannot get
away with it because
I'll be there watching because that's
part of my Monday but as of now
the government still has not released
its promised master plan
reconstruction so many Filipinos have
had to rely on their own initiative
to do with the government has not done
so far jumping Filipinos are
very used to there are a couple love
commonly used expressions that you here
in the Philippines especially in
difficult times
Behala now there's nothing we can do
about it we'll just have faith that
things will get better then there's
discarded along
if it's broken well we'll just figure
out some way to patch it together
and get it working again
it helps explain the efforts of dante
and earl or
linger they set up an outdoor soup
kitchen
the hundreds of local children who lost
homes
siblings parents all the more remarkable
given that dante and lore lost 32
relatives in the storm
and three of their four children their
two youngest boys were crushed under a
crossbeam
when their house collapsed and mean we
find them
holding
hands they couldn't find their
daughter's body for another two days
so this is how they deal with their
grief
by helping others we do these difference
the is for him tuned
ordinary Filipinos find in their own way
to deal with the crisis
the people who could began building
their own shelters almost immediately
and
it continues today and many have ignored
a government decree
to not rebuild close to the water again
nowhere
is that more obvious then in the
district of unabomb
completely wiped out by the typhoon but
patch back together within two months
today it's a crowded warren of makeshift
shacks
much worse than living conditions here
before the storm
and now sharing space with three
enormous freighters
still stranded on shore for the people
%uh unabomb
the freighters are hawking symbols the
slow and uneven recovery
that they blame in large part on the
government did the government promised
they would
help give you a new home newhouse at
night allowing
promised but no no sign a video
in fact throughout the entire typhoons
om
the UN estimates there are more than one
million people still living in
inadequate housing still vulnerable to
the next big storm
and well people here are well aware of
the danger
they say they're more immediate concern
is jobs
which are in short supply for
individuals
and entire industries like so many here
Emily Ortega and her husband haven't
found work they're still dependent on
humanitarian aid
and to have this region's biggest
industry were decimated by the typhoon
more than 30 million coconut trees were
wiped out
affecting the livelihood of 1 million
families who farm coconuts
it will take more than seven years for
any new trees to bear fruit
and fishermen aren't very much better
loose on took a steal your
has fished these waters all his life
today barely catches enough to feed his
family this is all you caught today
only this only this up
loose onto says the force of the storm
the debris
the pollutants left in the water have
seriously damaged the fishing grounds
well government and humanitarian aid
groups move quickly
to replace thousands have destroyed
boats fishermen say they now need
bigger boats to go farther out to sea
the
mother mean even plus he did to my
stomach before the typhoon
there was a variety of issuer some could
be as big as five kilos
now we can only catch this I guess the
fish went to another place
cogan addition by shape fishing is in
bad shape Philippine Red Cross chairman
Richard Gordon has been one of the most
vocal critics of the government
same it still hasn't done enough to me
bill or
revitalize the economy in the disaster
zone from the ground up
so you really have to come in and you
know let the day following the cause so
much damage
solve the problem in terms up
reconstruction skills
so that and a brace so they took the
daily wake up the economy
Gordon also says the Philippine
government is not yet prepared for the
next big storm
so the Red Cross is now stacking
supplies in new warehouses around the
region
that's what I did and sponsoring
community education drills
on how to respond to typhoon warnings
and with the Philippine school year just
beginning
this is the state have many schools in
the region
more than 18,000 classrooms need to be
rebuilt or repaired
so most classes are being held in
temporary huts or tense
so love these children
walk for miles just take part in school
activities
organized by the aid group Save the
Children here
eleven-year-old Sheila Mae can enjoy the
company of other children
and draw pictures up what nearly
everyone here lost
their homes treat really important that
children how
safe space where they can play in Marion
and
recover from the impact on the typhoon
Save the Children Kate Nolan says the
Philippines
still needs a great deal with help from
the international community
but as often happens months after a
major disaster
money is starting to dry up as donor
fatigue sets in
Save the Children has only raised
two-thirds of the donations it says it
needs
for its operations here people and
things will
generous but unless people continued to
mobilize that longer term support to
help people to recover
typhoon high and could be devastating
legacy
word thousands of children and their
families up
me
don't like me
for Emily ortega the young mother whose
child was born in the rubble the town
destroyed
in the way have the strongest typhoon
ever recorded
every day with her child her family
is a gift she never expected but like
so many other survivors she fears her
family will never again
feel completely safe and secure
to learn more about life on the ground
where the typhoon struck
read our producer's notebook online
visit newshour doc PBS done work
join us on air and online tomorrow
how positive and negative incentives may
improve your ability to reach financial
goals
so for instance your pro-gun control
you'll succeed
we can you make the NRA work vice versa
this is PBS Newshour weekend Saturday
in
and now to viewers like you
your take about some of our recent work
much of what we heard was about last
weekend's
signature story describing how many
people don't think to share their online
account information with loved ones
and the consequences are that after they
die Sally Garza wrote us on Facebook
this is a really important issue that
people need to talk about
I know we had to deal with a lot of this
on my dad passed away a few years ago
make sure you have a plan for what
happens to your digital accounts
Hannah BP added this the level of
problem depends on what kind of account
it is of course
it's mostly concerned because I'm
identity theft if accounts are closed
out
and no one is able to war is on a where
they need to manage and monitor them
they can be access by those that
shouldn't have access
while those who should are locked out
even without identity theft it can be a
major issue if
assets are inaccessible or take a very
long time to recover
for family leaving them vulnerable to
predators in the in term
this is what we heard from Karen
Lawrence coleman if you see it coming
you can just shut down your online
accounts better yet
shut them down as you no longer use them
by the time you hit 75 the account you
use are likely to be down by half
that's probably a good time to start
doing without most if you live that long
getting rid of them is great peace of
mind considering how criminals you
Social Security death records
Patricia Biggs had these words of advice
perhaps people should tell those they
love the important things
while they're still alive just sayin by
Jeffrey dick had his own solution
I'm gonna bombard my children with
pre-recorded messages
time to be sent years after I die
when direction
of some late news before we leave you
tonight Secretary of State John Kerry
called Russian Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov today
to say the United States is quote very
concerned
%uh evidence tampering from Malaysia
Airlines flight 17
which went down in eastern Ukraine all
298 people on board died
and a jury in Pensacola Florida awarded
23 points 6
billion dollars in punitive damages to
the widow of a longtime smoker who died
of lung cancer
she had sued RJ reynolds six years ago
the company's general counsel called the
ruling quote
far beyond the realm love reasonableness
and fairness
and said the company will appeal I'm
heisinger lassen
see you tomorrow of
here
am